# Project Overview

The recently concluded pilot study, Songwriting With Celiacs: The Impact of Creative Process on Depression & Anxiety, investigated the impact of songwriting education and practice on levels of depression, fatigue, anxiety, stress, and quality of life in adults diagnosed with Celiac Disease. The study was expanded for recruitment purposes to include participants coping with any form of moderate to severe chronic illness. Based on the pilot's favorable results, a feasibility study is proposed to evaluate the validity and adaptability of an online version of this intervention conducted over a videconferencing platform such as Zoom or Skype, and to collect data for testing hypotheses about relevant cognitive mechanisms and communication theories used to explain pilot data.

# Data description

The feasibility study will generate both quantitative and qualitative data. The quantitative data will be generated by pre-, post, and follow-up surveys measuring participant perceptions of issues such as loneliness, depression, fatigue, anxiety, and accessibility, distributed via Qualtrics and exported/saved in csv format. The qualitative data will be gathered via open-ended survey questions and video recordings of the workshops for later coding in Nvivo. The bulk of the data storage for this project will be used by the recordings of the online workshops, which will take approximately 25GB, but those recordings will ultimately be deleted to maintain confidentiality. The permanently stored and publicly available data, including survey data and coding data, will total less than 500KB.

# Roles and responsibilities

This study will be conducted as part of the graduate student's dissertaiton research. Though supervised by the PI, the graduate student will be responsible for correct data management and preservation of confidentiality, as well as collecting, documenting, orgainizing, de-identifying, analyzing, and properly sharing data. Student coders will be used to analyze qualitative data and other facultiy members may be asked to contribute expertise. None of these additional parties will be responsible for project or data oversight.

# Data standards and Metadata

The approved IRB application, university guidelines, research plan, and data management plan will dictate management of the data. Because there are no appropriate metadata standards yet established for social science music reseach, metadata will be unstructured and include project description, study design, program curriculum, data collection methods and measures used, lab notebook, software/methods for analysis, and data dictionary. Metadata will be captured through documenting each stage of the process, following the study design and/or version control procedures. 

# Data Storage and Security

During the project, data will be stored online in Github and cloud-based versions of analytical tools such as Nvivo to allow team members access for analysis and backed up weekly to an external hard drive. It will be the graduate student's responsibility to make sure that all data is password protected and that passwords are updated as necessary, and that files are clearly named and dated to ensure data is findable and reproducable.  

Github will be used to track changes and maintain version control, and adherence to project procedures will be documented in a Github-based lab notebook. During analysis, workshop recordings will be clearly dated and reference corresponding metadata in the lab notebook and curriculum activities. Open-ended survey responses will be organized by question number, survey number, and date (i.e., qual question 1_survey 2 responses_date collected). Qualitative data will be stored in spreadsheet format.

Data will be retained until publication, at which point it will be de-identified and stored in a repository. In order to protect participants’ identities, video files will be deleted once they have been coded and  direct and indirect identifiers will be removed from qualitative and quantitative data before it is shared with a repository. 

# Access and data sharing

Student coders will be used to analyze videos of the workshops and additional faculty members may be recruited to add expertise with certain analytical tools. However, no one besides the PI and graduate student will have access to all of the raw data. Calendar reminders will be scheduled to ensure that documentation is incorporated into daily (version control) and weekly (backup to external hard drive) work flows. If anyone leaves the project, their access to the data will be revoked and all relevant passwords will be changed. 

Because this project incolves human research subjects, it will not be possible to share raw data. However, de-identified data from quantitative surveys, statements from open-ended survey questions, and coded qualitative data from video recordings will be made available. Reproducibility will also be enhanced by sharing metadata such as study design, songwriting curriculum, data collection methods and measures used, data analysis software, and a data dictionary.  The data sharing and access plans will be approved by the IRB before the study begins.

# Archiving and Preservation

Once the project is completed, all non-confidential data will be stored in a repository with a significant collection of social science arts research, such as ICPSR. The permanently stored and publicly available data, including survey data and coding data, will total less than 500KB.

